DICE Group Releases iRODS Version 2.0
Features Include Federation Capability for Collaborative Research

The Data-Intensive Cyber Environments (DICE) group has announced the release of version 2.0 of iRODS, the Integrated Rule-Oriented Data System. The new version of the award-winning software adds a number of important features, including federation of independent iRODS installations which lets them "talk" to each other, supporting large-scale collaboration by giving users seamless access to data distributed across different iRODS systems.

Core development of the open-source iRODS data system is led by the Advanced Center for Data Intensive Cyber Environments at the Institute for Neural Computation at the University of California, San Diego, and the National Center for Data Intensive Cyber Environments at the School of Information and Library Science at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC). Download of version 2.0, user information, and release notes are freely available as open source software from the iRODS wiki at http://irods.org.

"A major new feature in iRODS 2.0 is the ability to federate two or more independent iRODS data grids," said Reagan Moore, director of the Data-Intensive Computing Environments group and professor at UNC. “Federation lets communities maintain independent iRODS installations, while choosing to share some or all of their data under explicit management policies.” iRODS does this by mapping the policies to computer-actionable rules that control all remote operations as well as data exchange between separate iRODS systems or "zones." Additional federation iRODS rules are applied on top of the local rules at each iRODS data grid.

iRODS moves beyond the single-site repository model, which is based on the traditional hard copy paradigm, to implement a new paradigm that harnesses the full power of cyberinfrastructure and the virtual world to free digital data collections from the constraints of space—whether physical, administrative, or disciplinary—and time, through long-term preservation. This approach gives users an adaptable and extensible system with the integrated capabilities required for the full range of digital data management applications, from highly customizable sharing in data grids, to publication of data in digital libraries, sensor stream aggregation for real-time data systems, and long-term preservation of digital data for use in standard reference collections.

New features in iRODS version 2.0 include:
 - iRODS Zone Federation. Each separate iRODS installation or "iRODS Zone"—which consists of one or more iRODS Servers, a single associated iRODS Metadata Catalog, and multiple Clients—can share data and metadata.
 - Master/Slave iCAT. An iRods Zone can be configured to run with a single Master iCAT metadata catalog plus optional Slave iCATs synchronized with the Master catalog. This can reduce latency, speeding up metadata queries across wide area networks.
 - iRODS Explorer for Windows client provides a rich Graphical User Interface and fast navigation and operations to manage data.
 - SRB to iRODS Migration Tool. This preliminary version of a migration tool helps convert an SRB instance to an iRODS one, letting the iRODS system access the data formerly under SRB management without the need to move the physical files.
 - A new bundling feature gathers large numbers of small files into structured files such as tar files for efficient uploading, downloading, and archiving.

iRODS version 2.0 is supported on Linux, Solaris, Macintosh, and AIX platforms. The iRODS commands are also supported on the Windows operating system, and there is a Windows GUI client. The iRODS Metadata Catalog will run on both the open-source PostgreSQL database (which can be installed as part of the iRODS install package) and Oracle. And iRODS is quick and easy to install; just answer a few questions and the install package automatically sets up the system for you.

iRODS was first released in late 2006. Version 1.0 of the software was released under a BSD open-source license in January 2008. As a second generation data grid development effort, iRODS leverages more than 10 years of user-driven experience with the Storage Resource Broker. With a grant-funded core developer team, the iRODS system is growing rapidly as collaborating projects contribute code to the open source software.

The iRODS team is working with partners in a number of projects to apply the technology, including the Transcontinental Persistent Archives Prototype for the National Archives and Records Administration, the Ocean Observatories Initiative, the NSF Temporal Dynamics of Learning Center, the NHPRC-supported Distributed Custodial Archival Preservation Environments project, and the French National Library. Project collaborators include the French Institut National de Physique Nucléaire et de Physique des Particules, the Sustaining Heritage Access through Multivalent ArchiviNg project, the UK e-Science Data Management Group at Rutherford Appleton Laboratory, and the High Energy Accelerator Research Organization, KEK, in Japan.

For more information on the project, go to https://www.irods.org. iRODS is funded by the National Archives and Records Administration and the National Science Foundation.
