#

## Key Data Management Tasks and iRODS

iRODS, the Integrated Rule-Oriented Data System, is a state-of-the-art open
source software system for addressing the key data management tasks that face
users as the size and complexity of digital data collections continue to grow
rapidly. Because the principal data management tasks are highly interrelated,
rather than taking a piecemeal approach or addressing just a single task, the
iRODS system takes a comprehensive approach to full data life cycle management.

At the same time, the system design is highly user-driven and avoids the
pitfalls of a "one size fits all" design by building on a comprehensive generic
platform with a highly configurable architecture. In addition, iRODS offers
multiple paths to interoperation with outside systems such as repositories,
interfaces, and applications. This lets users adapt iRODS to the details of
their own environment in a wide range of production applications that can
emphasize different aspects of data management in diverse domains.

### Small scale use

iRODS can be downloaded and fully installed in a simple default configuration
in a few minutes. For example, one user is applying iRODS in a stand-alone
installation running on a single laptop computer, using external hard drives
for data storage, in oceanographic research that simultaneously harvests
multiple types of data from instruments on a research vessel in the Antarctic,
far from shore-based support. Another institution is using iRODS to preserve
periodic Web crawls to maintain a long-term historical view of their Web-based
information.

### Large scale use

#### Sharing and Preserving Data for Collaboration in a Data Grid

Because iRODS grew out of a supercomputing environment, it scales to very large use. Big
scientific research projects such as the Ocean Observatories Initiative (OOI);
the National Climatic Data Center (NCDC); the National Optical Astronomy
Observatory (NOAO); the Australian Research Collaboration Service (ARCS); and
the Centre de Calcul de l'Institut National de Physique Nucléaire et de
Physique des Particules (CC-IN2P3) in France are using iRODS for managing
petabytes of data in hundreds of millions of files on distributed storage
resources spread across the country and around the globe.

#### Preservation Environments for Long-term Archiving

The [National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) Transcontinental Persistent Archives Prototype
(TPAP)](http://www.archives.gov/applied-research/tpap.html), and the National Library of France are examples of large-scale archival
applications of iRODS.

## Why Was iRODS Developed?

Recent decades have seen a rapid rise in collaborative activities in scientific
research, and more broadly across many sectors of society. Driven by new
information technologies such as the Web as well as the increasing complexity
and interdisciplinary nature of today's research problems – from climate
change to biomedicine, large-scale astronomical projects, and the world's
increasingly integrated economies – are driving the need for technologies,
sometimes called "cyberinfrastructure," that enable researchers to collaborate
effectively continues to grow rapidly. The Integrated Rule-Oriented Data System
(iRODS) is state-of-the-art software that supports collaborative research, and
more broadly management, sharing, publication, and long-term preservation of
data that are distributed.

A tool for collaboration, iRODS is itself the product of a fruitful
collaboration spanning more than two decades among high performance computing,
preservation, and library communities, whose real-world needs have driven and
shaped iRODS development. The computational science and high performance
computing (HPC) communities are inherently interdisciplinary, generating and
using very large data collections distributed across multiple sites and groups.
The massive size of these data collections has encouraged development of unique
capabilities in iRODS that allow scaling to collections containing petabytes of
data and hundreds of millions of files.

The preservation community brings the need for long-term preservation of
digital information, a challenging problem that is still an active research
area to which iRODS research activities have made significant contributions.
Interestingly, there turn out to be significant commonalities in the
requirements for preserving digital data in time and collaborative sharing of
distributed data collections across space, whether geographic, institutional,
disciplinary, etc. The third community that has contributed to iRODS
development is the library community, with expertise in descriptive metadata
that is essential for management, discovery, repurposing, as well as controlled
sharing and long-term preservation of digital collections.

In collaborating with these communities, iRODS research and development has
been characterized by close attention to the practical requirements of a wide
range of users, resulting in pioneering architecture and solutions to numerous
distributed data challenges that now form the iRODS Data System for managing,
sharing, publishing, and preserving today's rapidly growing and increasingly
complex digital collections.

The integrated Rule Oriented Data System (iRODS) is software middleware, or
"cyberinfrastructure," that organizes distributed data into a sharable
collection. The iRODS software is used to implement a data grid that assembles
data into a logical collection. Properties such as integrity (uncorrupted
record), authenticity (linking of provenance information to each record), chain
of custody (tracking of location and management controls within the
preservation environment), and trustworthiness (sustainability of the records)
can be imposed on the logical collection. When data sets are distributed across
multiple types of storage systems, across multiple administrative domains,
across multiple institutions, and across multiple countries, data grid
technology is used to enforce uniform management policies on the assembled
collection.

The specific challenges addressed by iRODS include:

- Management of interactions with storage resources that use different access
protocols. The data grid provides mechanisms to map from the actions requested
by a client to the protocol required by a specific vendor supplied disk, tape,
archive, or object-relational database.

- Support for authentication and authorization across systems that use
different identity management systems. The data grid authenticates all access,
and authorizes and logs all operations upon the files registered into the
shared collection.

- Support for uniform management policies across institutions that may have
differing access requirements such as different Institutional Research Board
approval processes. The policies controlling use, distribution, replication,
retention, disposition, authenticity, integrity, and trustworthiness are
enforced by the data grid.

- Support for wide-area-network access. To maintain interactive response,
network transport is optimized for moving massive files (through parallel I/O
streams), for moving small files (through encapsulation of the file in the
initial data transfer request), for moving large numbers of small files
(aggregation into containers), and for minimizing the amount of data sent over
the network (execution of remote procedures such as data subsetting on each
storage resource).

In response to these challenges, iRODS is an ongoing research and software
development effort to provide software infrastructure solutions that enable
collaborative research. The software systems are implemented as middleware that
interacts with remote storage systems on behalf of the users. The goal of the
iRODS team is to develop generic software that can be used to implement all
distributed data management applications, through changing the management
policies and procedures. This has been realized by creating a highly extensible
software infrastructure that can be modified without requiring the modification
of the core software or development of new software code.

